Case Study Roadmap - Ask
Guiding questions
● What is the problem you are trying to solve?
Cyclistic wants to know how casual riders differ from Members and what marketing strategies they can apply to convert casual riders to members.
● How can your insights drive business decisions?
Insights gotten from this study will help the marketing team know what strategies they can apply to convert casual riders to members and how they can apply them.
Key tasks
● Identify the business task
Analysis of the cyclistic dataset to extract insights on rider patterns
● Consider key stakeholders
Cyclistic Marketing and Analytics Team
Lily Moreno: The director of marketing and your manager.
Cyclistic Executive Team
Deliverable
● A clear statement of the business task
Analyze customer data (customer segmentation) and deliver insights to aid the marketing team
Case Study Roadmap - Prepare
Guiding questions
● Where is your data located?
https://divvy-tripdata.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html
For this study, I will be using the Cyclistic 2026 Q1 data spanning from January to April
● How is the data organized?
Data is in csv format
Columns
Data Type
Ride_id
object
Rideable_type
object
Started_at
datetime
Ended_at
datetime
Start_station_name
object
Start_station_id
object
End_station_name
object
End_station_id
object
Start_lat
float
Start_lng
float
End_lat
float
End_lng
float
Member_casual
object
● Are there issues with bias or credibility in this data? Does your data ROCCC?
ROCCC
Reliability: The dataset was provided by the instructors in the Google DA course
Originality: Cyclistic bike data (fictional, but the data is updated)
Comprehensive: The dataset is easy to read and understand
Cited: This is part of a public course, so multipe citation is assumed.
Current: I’m using the data for 2026 Q1
● How are you addressing licensing, privacy, security, and accessibility?
The dataset is stored locally on my PC, and google drive. There were no passwords set since this is a personal project
● How did you verify the data’s integrity?
The dataset was provided by the instructors in the Google DA course
● How does it help you answer your question?
The dataset helps me to see the customer data and extract insights for the analytics team
● Are there any problems with the data?
None that I can think of, for now…..
Key tasks
● Download data and store it appropriately.
● Identify how it’s organized.
● Sort and filter the data.
● Determine the credibility of the data.
Deliverable
● A description of all data sources used
Case Study Roadmap - Process
Guiding questions
● What tools are you choosing and why?
● Have you ensured your data’s integrity?
● What steps have you taken to ensure that your data is clean?
● How can you verify that your data is clean and ready to analyze?
● Have you documented your cleaning process so you can review and share those
results?
Key tasks
● Check the data for errors.
● Choose your tools.
● Transform the data so you can work with it effectively.
● Document the cleaning process.
Deliverable
● Documentation of any cleaning or manipulation of data
Case Study Roadmap - Analyze
Guiding questions
● How should you organize your data to perform analysis on it?
● Has your data been properly formatted?
● What surprises did you discover in the data?
● What trends or relationships did you find in the data?
● How will these insights help answer your business questions?
Key tasks
● Aggregate your data so it’s useful and accessible.
● Organize and format your data.
● Perform calculations.
● Identify trends and relationships.
Deliverable
● A summary of your analysis
Case Study Roadmap - Share
Guiding questions
● Were you able to answer the question of how annual members and casual riders use
Cyclistic bikes differently?
● What story does your data tell?
● How do your findings relate to your original question?
● Who is your audience? What is the best way to communicate with them?
● Can data visualization help you share your findings?
● Is your presentation accessible to your audience?
Key tasks
● Determine the best way to share your findings.
● Create effective data visualizations.
● Present your findings.
● Ensure your work is accessible.
Deliverable
● Supporting visualizations and key findings
Case Study Roadmap - Act
Guiding questions
● What is your final conclusion based on your analysis?
● How could your team and business apply your insights?
● What next steps would you or your stakeholders take based on your findings?
● Is there additional data you could use to expand on your findings?
Key tasks
● Create your portfolio.
● Add your case study.
● Practice presenting your case study to a friend or family member.
Deliverable
● Your top three recommendations based on your analysis